[TEP-0091] Update trusted resources feature flag and add condition (#949)
tektoncd/community: teps/0091-trusted-resources.md

	Resources []ResourcePattern `json:"resources"`
	// Authorities defines the rules for validating signatures.
	Authorities []Authority `json:"authorities"`
	// Mode controls whether a failing policy will fail the taskrun/pipelinerun, or only log the warnings
	// enforce - fail the taskrun/pipelinerun if verification fails (default)

> 	// warn - don't fail the taskrun/pipelinerun if verification fails but log warnings

Author: Thanks! This is much better!

	Resources []ResourcePattern `json:"resources"`
	// Authorities defines the rules for validating signatures.
	Authorities []Authority `json:"authorities"`
	// Mode controls whether a failing policy will be rejected (not admitted), or if errors are converted to Warnings.
	// enforce - Reject (default)
	// warn - allow but warn
	// +optional

> 	Mode string `json:"mode,omitempty"`

Reviewer: nit: i'm confused by the text a few lines up "(Reference from [policy-controller](https://github.com/sigstore/policy-controller))" - is that meaning to say that this code is copied directly from the policy-controller as an example of what the API could be, or is it saying that the code here is inspired by the policy-controller?

If it's the latter (and i think it is?) it might be clearer to say something like "inspired by the policy-controller" or "based on the policy-controller" or have a separate section with something like "similar approaches in other projects"

Author: Thanks! It is the latter. Will update

Author: Updated it and also the docstrings.

### Configuration

 ```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: feature-flag
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
data:
  verification-no-match-policy: "deny"
```

`verification-no-match-policy`. (Optional, `allow`, `warn` or `deny`, default to `allow`):
 * `allow`: Don't fail the taskrun/pipelinerun if no matching policies are found. Don't log.
 * `warn`: Don't fail the taskrun/pipelinerun and log a warning if no matching policies are found.
 * `deny`: Fail the taskrun/pipelinerun if no matching policies are found.

 Reconciler will respond to verification failure based on ConfigMap and Verification Policy exsitence settings to:
1) Return error in reconciler, mark the status as error with `FailedVerification` reason if `enforce` policies fail
2) Not return error, but warn the log and update the status condition with `FailedVerification` reason if only found `warn` policies.

> 3) Skip the verification if no policies exist and `verification-no-match-policy` is set to `allow`.

Author: I found this part overlaps with section below. I have merged them and added examples

 **How configmap works with Verification Policy**
 * If the `verification-no-match-policy` is set to `deny`
   * No Matching Policies: Resources that do not have matched policies will fail the taskrun/pipelinerun.
   * Matching Policies:
     * Don't fail taskrun/pipelinerun if all the matched `enforce` policies pass or only match `warn` policies.
     * Fail the taskrun/pipelinerun if any matched `enforce` policy fails to verify.

 * If the `verification-no-match-policy` is set to `allow` or `warn`,
   * No Matching Policies: Don't fail taskrun/pipelinerun, and will emit warning log if set to `warn`.
   * Matching Policies: Same as `deny`.

 #### Condition Update

 Trusted resources should also update the taskrun/pipelinerun’s condition to indicate if it passes verification or not. This can be done via knative api. Other options are listed in [alternatives](#alternatives).

 Need to create conditions for trusted resources so this can co-exist with current `apis.ConditionSucceeded` type:
 ```go
 const (
	// ConditionVerification specifies that the resources pass trusted resources verification or not.

> 	ConditionVerification apis.ConditionType = "TrustedResourcesVerification"

Author: sure! sgtm!

> 	ConditionVerification apis.ConditionType = "TrustedResourcesVerification"

Reviewer 2: found [conditions conventions](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/4c9ef2d/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#typical-status-properties) that back this request to rename the condition:

> Condition type names should describe the current observed state of the
  resource, rather than describing the current state transitions. This
  typically means that the name should be an adjective ("Ready", "OutOfDisk")
  or a past-tense verb ("Succeeded", "Failed") rather than a present-tense verb
  ("Deploying"). Intermediate states may be indicated by setting the status of
  the condition to `Unknown`.

)
 ```

Conditions by Case:

1. All matching policies pass verification
Condition:
 ```go
 apis.Condition{

> 			Type:    ConditionVerification,

Author: That makes sense! Thanks!

### Configuration

 ```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: feature-flag
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
data:
  trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy: "fail"
```

`trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy`. (Optional, `ignore`, `warn` or `fail`, default to `ignore`):
 * `ignore`: Don't fail the taskrun/pipelinerun and skip verification if no matching policies are found. Don't log.
 * `warn`: Don't fail the taskrun/pipelinerun and log a warning if no matching policies are found.
 * `fail`: Fail the taskrun/pipelinerun if no matching policies are found.

> **Note:** The current proposed `trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy` will be added to replace the old `resource-verification-mode` in one release and this is not a backwards compatible change.

Reviewer: I think this is already on your radar, but please send a notification to tekton-dev@ and tekton-users@ to warn folks this is going to happen within one release, with some warning (at least a week I'm thinking?) before the release goes out 🙏

### Condition Update

> Trusted resources should update the taskrun/pipelinerun’s condition to indicate if it passes verification or not. This can be done via knative api. Other options are listed in [alternatives](#alternatives).

Reviewer: nit: 'via the knative api' sounds like we're including some knative specific functionality our API. afaik [this is a kubernetes specific convention](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#typical-status-properties); knative pkg just provides us with libraries that make this easier. If I'm understanding correctly, it might be clearer here to refer to the k8s conventions instead of knative

 ```go
 apis.Condition{
			Type:    ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified,
			Status:  corev1.ConditionTrue,
			Reason:  podconvert.ReasonResourceVerificationSuccess
			Message: "Trusted resource verification passed",
		}
 ```

A failed condition is:
  ```go
 apis.Condition{
			Type:    ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified,
			Status:  corev1.ConditionFalse,
			Reason:  podconvert.ReasonResourceVerificationFailed
			Message: "", //filled with error message,
		}
 ```

### How feature flag and Verification Policy update the status
* If the `trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy` is set to `fail`
  * No Matching Policies found: Resources that do not have matched policies will fail the taskrun/pipelinerun.

  Resulting yaml status:
  ```yaml
  status:
    conditions:
    - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
      message: no policies are matched
      reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
      status: "False"
      type: TrustedResourcesVerified
    - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
      message: no policies are matched
      reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
      status: "False"
      type: Succeeded
  ```

   * Matching Policies found:

>      * Don't fail taskrun/pipelinerun if all the matched `enforce` policies pass or only match `warn` policies.

Reviewer 2: this contradicts line 461 which says that warn policies failing causes `Conditions.TrustedResourcesVerified` to be set to "False"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     * If all the matched `enforce` policies pass, and the TaskRun/PipelineRun succeeds:
```

>      * Don't fail taskrun/pipelinerun if all the matched `enforce` policies pass or only match `warn` policies.

Author: if only match `warn` policies, and they fail verification, it won't fail the run and set the `Succeeded ` to false. This is aligned with the table. Why it contradicts 461 sample?

>      * Don't fail taskrun/pipelinerun if all the matched `enforce` policies pass or only match `warn` policies.

Reviewer 2: reading it again, it's not contradictory, but it's confusing when the two scenarios are combined (that's why I thought it was contradicting)

  * `trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy` is set to `fail`,  add `false` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified` and `false` `Conditions.Succeeded` to `conditions`:
    ```yaml
    status:
      conditions:
      - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
        message: Trusted resource verification failed
        reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
        status: "False"
        type: TrustedResourcesVerified
      - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"

>         message: resource verification failed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        message: Trusted resource verification failed
```

      status:
        conditions:
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
          message: Trusted resource verification failed
          reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
          status: "False"
          type: TrustedResourcesVerified
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
          message: All Steps have completed executing
          reason: Succeeded
          status: "True"
          type: Succeeded
      ```
     * Fail the taskrun/pipelinerun if any matched `enforce` policy fails to verify.
      Resulting yaml status with `enforce` mode policy, note that the run will fail:
      ```yaml
      status:
        conditions:
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
          message: Trusted resource verification failed
          reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
          status: "False"
          type: TrustedResourcesVerified
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
          message: resource verification failed
          reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
          status: "False"
          type: Succeeded
      ```

 * If the `trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy` is set to `ignore` or `warn`,

>    * No Matching Policies found: Don't fail taskrun/pipelinerun, skip the verification if set to `ignore`, and emit warning log if set to `warn`.

Reviewer 2: so there's no `TrustedResourcesVerified` in this case? if so, please make it explicit

>     * any enforce policy fails, add `false` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified` and return error in reconciler to set `Conditions.Succeeded` to `false`:

Reviewer 2: spacing/bulleting is off
```suggestion
  * any enforce policy fails, add `false` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified` and return error in reconciler to set `Conditions.Succeeded` to `false`:
```

      Resulting yaml status, note that condition will not be added in this case:
      ```yaml
      status:
        conditions:
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
          message: All Steps have completed executing
          reason: Succeeded
          status: "True"
          type: Succeeded
      ```

>    * Matching Policies found: Same as `fail`.

Reviewer 2: what does "same as `fail` mean"? it'd be helpful if you restate what happens, or reference the section that it's the same as

>      * only warn policies fail, then only add `false` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified`:

Reviewer 2: spacing/bulleting is off

```suggestion
  * only warn policies fail, then only add `false` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified`:
```

>     ```

Reviewer: thank you for adding all this additional detail 🙏

			Status:  corev1.ConditionTrue,
			Reason:  podconvert.ReasonResourceVerificationSuccess
			Message: "Trusted resource verification passed",
		}
 ```

A failed condition is:
  ```go
 apis.Condition{
			Type:    ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified,
			Status:  corev1.ConditionFalse,
			Reason:  podconvert.ReasonResourceVerificationFailed
			Message: "", //filled with error message,
		}
 ```

### How feature flag and Verification Policy update the status

**No Matching Policies:**

|                             | `Conditions.TrustedResourcesVerified` | `Conditions.Succeeded` |
|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------|------------------------|
| `no-match-policy`: "ignore" |                                       |                        |
| `no-match-policy`: "warn"   | False                                 |                        |
| `no-match-policy`: "fail"   | False                                 | False                  |

**Matching Policies:**

|                          | `Conditions.TrustedResourcesVerified` | `Conditions.Succeeded` |
|--------------------------|---------------------------------------|------------------------|

> | all enforce policies pass| True                                  |                        |

Reviewer 2: is this set to true when all policies pass, not just enforce policies?
```suggestion
| all policies pass| True                                  |                        |
```

Author: Oh I think you're correct!

| any enforce policy fails | False                                 | False                  |
| only warn policies fail  | False                                 |                        |

**Examples:**

> * No Matching Policies:

Reviewer 2: can move these examples section under the "No Matching Policies" section above

    * `trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy` is set to `ignore`, then no updates on conditions, succeeded `conditions` are:
      ```yaml
      status:
        conditions:
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
          message: All Steps have completed executing
          reason: Succeeded
          status: "True"
          type: Succeeded

>       ```

Reviewer 2: in this case, we don't actually do anything to `Conditions.Succeeded` (there could be another failure, can't assume that it'd be "True")

Author: removed all unnecessary conditions to avoid confusions

    * `trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy` is set to `warn`, only add `false` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified` to `conditions`:
      ```yaml
      status:
        conditions:
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
          message: Trusted resource verification failed
          reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
          status: "False"
          type: TrustedResourcesVerified
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
          message: All Steps have completed executing
          reason: Succeeded
          status: "True"
          type: Succeeded

>       ```

Reviewer 2: in this case, we don't actually do anything to `Conditions.Succeeded` (there could be another failure, can't assume that it'd be "True")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * `trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy` is set to `warn`, only add `false` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified` to `conditions`:
      ```yaml
      status:
        conditions:
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
          message: Trusted resource verification failed
          reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
          status: "False"
          type: TrustedResourcesVerified
      ```
```

    * `trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy` is set to `fail`,  add `false` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified` and `false` `Conditions.Succeeded` to `conditions`:
      ```yaml
      status:
        conditions:
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
          message: Trusted resource verification failed
          reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
          status: "False"
          type: TrustedResourcesVerified
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
          message: resource verification failed
          reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
          status: "False"
          type: Succeeded
      ```

> * Matching Policies (no matter what `trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy` value is):

Reviewer 2: can move these examples section under the "Matching Policies" section above

>   * all policies pass, add `true` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified`:
>       ```yaml
>       status:
>         conditions:
>         - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
>           message: Trusted resource verification passed
>           reason: ResourceVerificationSucceeded
>           status: "True"
>           type: TrustedResourcesVerified
>         - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
>           message: All Steps have completed executing
>           reason: Succeeded
>           status: "True"
>           type: Succeeded
>       ```

Reviewer 2: in this case, we don't actually do anything to `Conditions.Succeeded` (there could be another failure, can't assume that it'd be "True")

```suggestion
  * all policies pass, add `true` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified`:
      ```yaml
      status:
        conditions:
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
          message: Trusted resource verification passed
          reason: ResourceVerificationSucceeded
          status: "True"
          type: TrustedResourcesVerified
      ```
```

    * any enforce policy fails, add `false` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified` and return error in reconciler to set `Conditions.Succeeded` to `false`:
      ```yaml
      status:
        conditions:
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
          message: Trusted resource verification failed
          reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
          status: "False"
          type: TrustedResourcesVerified
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
          message: resource verification failed
          reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
          status: "False"
          type: Succeeded
      ```

>      * only warn policies fail, then only add `false` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified`:
>       ```yaml
>       status:
>         conditions:
>         - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
>           message: Trusted resource verification failed
>           reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
>           status: "False"
>           type: TrustedResourcesVerified
>         - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
>           message: All Steps have completed executing
>           reason: Succeeded
>           status: "True"
>           type: Succeeded
>       ```

Reviewer 2: in this case, we don't actually do anything to `Conditions.Succeeded` (there could be another failure, can't assume that it'd be "True")

```suggestion
     * only warn policies fail, then only add `false` `ConditionTrustedResourcesVerified`:
      ```yaml
      status:
        conditions:
        - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
          message: Trusted resource verification failed
          reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
          status: "False"
          type: TrustedResourcesVerified
      ```
```

### Configuration

 ```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: feature-flag
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
data:
  verification-no-match-policy: "deny"
```

`verification-no-match-policy`. (Optional, `allow`, `warn` or `deny`, default to `allow`):
 * `allow`: Don't fail the taskrun/pipelinerun if no matching policies are found. Don't log.
 * `warn`: Don't fail the taskrun/pipelinerun and log a warning if no matching policies are found.
 * `deny`: Fail the taskrun/pipelinerun if no matching policies are found.

 Reconciler will respond to verification failure based on ConfigMap and Verification Policy exsitence settings to:
1) Return error in reconciler, mark the status as error with `FailedVerification` reason if `enforce` policies fail
2) Not return error, but warn the log and update the status condition with `FailedVerification` reason if only found `warn` policies.
3) Skip the verification if no policies exist and `verification-no-match-policy` is set to `allow`.

> **Note:** The current proposed `verification-no-match-policy` will replace the old `resource-verification-mode` in one release and this is not a backwards compatible change.

Reviewer: Could you elaborate a bit more on whether both options will exist for one release or whether `resource-verification-mode` will be removed and `verification-no-match-policy` will be added in the same release? The latter afaik is a backwards incompatible change. The former isn't but it would be good to understand how the options will coexist for that one release

Author: We decided with the latter one and I have added the note here. I will update the notice to make it more clear.

			Message: "Trusted resource verification passed",
		}
 ```

Resulting yaml status:
```yaml
status:
  completionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
    message: Trusted resource verification passed
    reason: ResourceVerificationSucceeded
    status: "True"
    type: TrustedResourcesVerification
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
    message: All Steps have completed executing
    reason: Succeeded
    status: "True"
    type: Succeeded
```

 2. Policy fails verification.
Condition:
 ```go
 apis.Condition{
			Type:    ConditionVerification,
			Status:  corev1.ConditionFalse,
			Reason:  podconvert.ReasonResourceVerificationFailed
			Message: "", //filled with error message,
		}
 ```

Resulting yaml status:
```yaml
status:
  completionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
    message: Trusted resource verification failed
    reason: ResourceVerificationFailed
    status: "False"
    type: TrustedResourcesVerification
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
    message: All Steps have completed executing
    reason: Succeeded
    status: "True"

>     type: Succeeded

Reviewer: I think I'm revisiting a previous discussion, but if the Task fails verification, shouldn't we fail execution? I can't imagine a scenario where a Task fails verification but we want it to execute anyway

Author: Oh that's true, I think for warn mode policy, we shouldn't fail the execution, for enforce mode we should fail. I will update this part

 **How configmap works with Verification Policy**
 * If the `verification-no-match-policy` is set to `deny`
   * No Matching Policies: Resources that do not have matched policies will fail the taskrun/pipelinerun.
   * Matching Policies:
     * Don't fail taskrun/pipelinerun if all the matched `enforce` policies pass or only match `warn` policies.
     * Fail the taskrun/pipelinerun if any matched `enforce` policy fails to verify.

 * If the `verification-no-match-policy` is set to `allow` or `warn`,
   * No Matching Policies: Don't fail taskrun/pipelinerun, and will emit warning log if set to `warn`.
   * Matching Policies: Same as `deny`.

 #### Condition Update

 Trusted resources should also update the taskrun/pipelinerun’s condition to indicate if it passes verification or not. This can be done via knative api. Other options are listed in [alternatives](#alternatives).

 Need to create conditions for trusted resources so this can co-exist with current `apis.ConditionSucceeded` type:
 ```go
 const (
	// ConditionVerification specifies that the resources pass trusted resources verification or not.

> 	ConditionVerification apis.ConditionType = "TrustedResourcesVerification"

Author: It looks like knative uses `ConditionXXX` as a naming pattern for conditions

	ConditionVerificationPass apis.ConditionType = "TrustedResourcesVerificationPass"
	// ConditionVerificationFail specifies that the resources fauk trusted resources verification.
	ConditionVerificationFail apis.ConditionType = "TrustedResourcesVerificationFail"
)
 ```

Conditions by Case:

1. All matching policies pass verification
Condition:
 ```go
 apis.Condition{
			Type:    ConditionVerificationPass,
			Status:  corev1.ConditionTrue,
			Reason:  podconvert.ReasonResourceVerificationSuccess
			Message: "Trusted resource verification passed",
		}
 ```

Resulting yaml status:
```yaml
status:
  completionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
    message: Trusted resource verification passed
    reason: ResourceVerificationSucceeded
    status: "True"
    type: TrustedResourcesVerificationPass
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:10Z"
    message: All Steps have completed executing
    reason: Succeeded
    status: "True"
    type: Succeeded
```

 2. `enforce` policy fails verification.
Condition:
 ```go
 apis.Condition{
			Type:    ConditionVerificationFail,

> 			Status:  corev1.ConditionFalse,

Author: Oh I see, thanks!

### Configuration

 ```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: feature-flag
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
data:

>   no-match-policy: "deny"

Reviewer: naming nit: can we use something that explains a bit more context than 'no-match-policy'? ideas:

- 'verification-policy-unmatched'
- 'verification-no-match-policy'

I think I actually like the original name 'verification-policy' a bit better; instead of removing it you could update the options to be something like

- `require-policy` (or `deny-unmatched`): require that a policy be set for all resources (same as no-match-policy: deny)
- `allow-no-policy` (or `allow-unmatched`?): default (same as no-match-policy: allow)

Author: Sure! I like the "update the options" approach. Will update this part

Author: Updated to use 'verification-policy'  with 

- allow-no-policy
- allow-no-policy-warn
- require-policy

Reviewer 3: To me these new values are more confusing - they're less clear on what the resulting behavior is at a glance.

e.g. `allow-no-policy-warn` could be interpreted as "warn if no policy" or also as "don't allow warn policies". Together you can piece together the differences, but I worry this will be more difficult to determine if looking at only a single value in the config map. I think the `no-match-policy` key better matches the condition we're checking, so I'd prefer to stick with that.

No objections to `verification-policy-unmatched` / `verification-no-match-policy` - can we change back to this with the allow / warn / deny values?

Author: ah ok, I will change the naming to "verification-no-match-policy" with allow / warn / deny values!

Author: Updated!

metadata:
  name: feature-flag
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
data:
  no-match-policy: "deny"
```

`no-match-policy`. (Optional, `allow`, `deny` or `warn`, default `allow`):
 * `deny`: Reject the resource and fail the taskrun/pipelinerun if no matching policies are found.

>  * `allow`: Allow the resource if no matching policies are found.

Reviewer 4: Since warn is a no-op as far as execution goes, do we need allow? Cant it be just deny or warn?

Author: I think we need? This is for the feature flag not the policy mode

3) Skip the verification if no policies exist and `no-match-policy` is set to `allow`.

 **Note:**

>  * If the `no-match-policy` is set to `deny`, resources that do not match any policies will be rejected. Resources that match policies will be accepted if all the matching `enforce` policies pass or only match `warn` policies.

Reviewer: when you say "rejected" do you mean they can't be written to the cluster (enforced by a webhook when applying a Task/Pipeline), or that TaskRuns/PipelineRuns that use them will fail?

Author: Thanks! I think I need to clear about the wording and make clarifications. 
I think ideally it should mean both. If a task/pipeline fails verification, it should not be written into the cluster and TaskRuns/PipelineRuns that use them will fail. 

For remote resources, they are resolved by remote resolution then verified by trusted resources and will not be written into storage. 
For api resources, we can add verification at webhook to reject them

Author: Updated related words

 * If the `no-match-policy` is set to `allow` or `warn`, resources that do not match any policies will be accepted, and will emit warning log if set to `warn`. Resources that match policies will be accepted if all the matching `enforce` policies pass or only match `warn` policies.

 #### Condition Update

 Trusted resources should also update the taskrun/pipelinerun’s condition to indicate if it passes verification or not. This can be done via knative api.

Cases:

1. All matching policies pass verification
Sample Condition:
 ```go
 apis.Condition{
			Type:    apis.ConditionType(apis.ConditionSeverityInfo),
			Status:  corev1.ConditionTrue,
			Reason:  podconvert.ReasonResourceVerificationSuccess
			Message: "Trusted resource verification passed",
		}
 ```

 2. `enforce` policy fails verification.
Sample Condition:
 ```go
 apis.Condition{

> 			Type:    apis.ConditionType(apis.ConditionSeverityInfo),

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused by this Type, my understanding for our existing execution status is that we use apis.ConditionSucceeded, what is apis.ConditionSeverityInfo intended to be used for, and do we want to use that or do we want to use something custom? (would be useful to provide more detail around how we chose this type and what other options would be)

Author: Sure! If we use `apis.ConditionSucceeded` then it will be overwritten when taskrun is completed, using a different type can avoid this. The type in this example is from knative:
https://github.com/knative/pkg/blob/980a33719a10024f45e44320316c5bd35cef18d6/apis/condition_types.go#L52

The condition in taskrun status will be:
```
  - lastTransitionTime: "2023-03-01T18:17:05Z"
    message: Trusted resource verification passed
    reason: Verification Success
    status: "True"
    type: Info
```

I didn't think about creating our own condition type before but that could be another option. If we have a custom type then we could also avoid overwritten of the same type

			Status:  corev1.ConditionFalse,
			Reason:  podconvert.ReasonResourceVerificationFailed
			Message: "Trusted resource verification failed",
		}
 ```

  3. `warn` policy fails verification.
Sample Condition:
 ```go
 apis.Condition{
			Type:    apis.ConditionType(apis.ConditionSeverityInfo),
			Status:  corev1.ConditionTrue,
			Reason:  podconvert.ReasonResourceVerificationFailed
			Message: "Trusted resource verification failed",
		}

>  ```

Reviewer: can you provide an example of what this looks like in the resulting yaml status? e.g. for [execution status of a TaskRun](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/main/docs/taskruns.md#monitoring-execution-status):

```yaml
status:
  completionTime: "2022-12-09T23:39:53Z"
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2022-12-09T23:39:53Z"
    message: All Steps have completed executing
    reason: Succeeded
    status: "True"
    type: Succeeded
```

Author: Yeah sure! I will also explain how our condition co-exist with current conditions!

  name: feature-flag
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
data:
  resource-verification-mode: verify_all
```

`resource-verification-mode`. (Optional, `verify_all`, `verify_match` or `no_verification`, default `no_verification`):
 * `verify_all`: Failing verification will mark the taskruns/pipelineruns as failed.

>  * `verify_match`: fetch VerificationPolicy from the namespace, and if policies matched then verify, otherwise skip the verification.

Reviewer 4: nit:
s/fetch/Fetch

Author: thx!

>  * `verify_match`: fetch VerificationPolicy from the namespace, and if policies matched then verify, otherwise skip the verification.

Reviewer 4: nit: This could be explained elsewhere, but by match it is not clear what is supposed to match. Maybe a link to matching point 2 in "Verify Resources" could be useful.

Author: 👍

>  * `verify_match`: Fetch VerificationPolicy from the namespace, and if policies matched then verify, otherwise skip the verification. Details explained in [ Verify the Resources](#verify-the-resources)

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is a good idea to support globally, though I get why we'd want something like this for incremental adoption. It would be generally be bad if Tasks could circumvent verification just by renaming to something that's not covered by policy, and new Tasks that are probably riskier would be exempted by default since they're unlikely to match existing policies.

Instead of making verification opt-in, it would probably be safer to make the mode opt-out on a per-policy basis (see [`ClusterImagePolicySpec.mode`](https://github.com/sigstore/policy-controller/blob/main/docs/api-types/index.md#clusterimagepolicyspec) for an example). This way things are directed to the more secure way by default, forcing users to either configure the matching policy or explicitly opt out the Tasks.

Author: Thanks! That makes sense. By looking at the [ClusterImagePolicySpec.mode](https://github.com/sigstore/policy-controller/blob/main/docs/api-types/index.md#clusterimagepolicyspec).  How about changing the `verify_match` to:
1. If found matched polices then verify and fail
2. If no matched policies then warn

Reviewer 3: Preferring warn over skip generally sounds good, but that doesn't address the larger problem of opt-in enforcement and the ability to evade enforcement by crafting a non-matching artifact. 😢 

Having policies that opt-out matching patterns seems like a better global policy - this way new artifacts that we haven't encountered before (whether they are malicious or not) can't bypass enforcement.

  name: feature-flag
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
data:
  enable-trusted-resource: true
```

`enable-trusted-resource`. (Optional, `true` or `false`, default `false`):

>  * `true`: Failing verification will mark the taskruns/pipelineruns as failed.

Reviewer 3: Warn throws a wrench into this. This might be another reason to just drop the feature flag entirely and just rely on policy existence. 🤔

Author: I was thinking about implementation details and thought having this might be easier. 

Without this, if we want to turn off this feature:
we need to set the no-match-policy to "allow", and make sure no policies are in the namespace. This may need some operations on the cluster. But if we have the feature flag, users can just turn off there without removing the policies. 

I think another difference between this work and policy-controller is that, trusted resources is just one feature of tekton pipeline. Policy controller is a project designed for images verification. Users will use it once they deploy the pods, and if they don't want to use they can remote the deployment.

Author: updated to remove this and rename the current feature flag to "no-match-policy"

 * `false`: Directly skip the verification.

 ```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: config-trusted-resources
  namespace: tekton-pipelines
data:
  no-match-policy: "deny"
```

> `no-match-policy`. (Optional, `allow`, `deny` or `warn`, default `deny`):

Reviewer 3: You probably want to default to allow, at least while still in alpha - this is the other piece that will let you drop the 
feature flag.

This may end up being a feature we always start at allow/warn - we probably don't want to flip on enforcement until a user is ready.

> `no-match-policy`. (Optional, `allow`, `deny` or `warn`, default `deny`):

Reviewer 4: Maybe a flow chart is useful here.
I presume if enable-trusted-resource is false then entire trusted resource code is not touched, so no messaging to the user.
If true and no-match-policy is allow then resources without policies will be allow, but will there be a message that it was allowed? Will a condition be set here? How does user know that the resource did not have a verification policy but was still allowed? Maybe another Reason in conidition?
If true and no-match-policy is warn then resources without policies will be warned. "Warn" is defined as set the condition Reason to "podconvert.ReasonResourceVerificationFailed," ?

Author: Thanks!

 * `deny`: when no matching policies found, reject the resource and fail taskrun/pipelinerun.
 * `allow`: when no matching policies found, allow the resource.
 * `warn`: when no matching policies found, allow the resource and log warning.

>  **Note:** If users want to have both signed resources and unsigned resources. The `enable-trusted-resource` needs to be set to `true` and `no-match-policy` is set to `allow`. So for signed resources, matched policies can be used to verify. For unsigned resources, no policies will be found so they are allowed.

Reviewer 3: This isn't quite true, since you could also have warn. What might be more useful here are some examples of how the policies + flag interact with each other (this would also be a good chance to document how multiple matching policies interact)

 #### Condition Update

 Trusted resources should also update the taskrun/pipelinerun’s condition to indicate if it passes verification or not. This can be done via knative api.

 Condition of a failure should be:
 ```go
 apis.Condition{
			Type:    apis.ConditionSucceeded,
			Status:  corev1.ConditionFalse,
			Reason:  podconvert.ReasonResourceVerificationFailed,
			Message: "Trusted resource verification failed",
		}

>  ```

Reviewer 3: You probably want to go more in depth here, since there are actually different states you can be in that will do different things:

1. Pass verification
2. Fail verification, enforce
3. Fail verification, warn
4. Fail verification, allow

tables / diagrams might help here.

Reviewer 4: +1, A flow chart or table would help.
